\#
\# $Id: Chapter05,fff,v 1.2 1999-11-03 11:22:38 james Exp $
\#
\# Manual.Section05/src
\# Mouse control
\# Original author: James Aylett
\#
\# This contains bits taken from Section A from the original manual.

\C{Mouse control} Mouse control

The mouse can be used in positioning the cursor, making and modifying
selections, and a few other useful operations.

\H{standard mouse} Standard mouse actions

The following is a list of the standard mouse actions. First, single clicks:

\b \c{Click Select} - Place cursor at the clicked position. This can be
modified by holding down various keys while clicking with the mouse.
\c{Shift} will only position the cursor if that would leave it outside the
current selection. \c{Control} won't move the cursor, but will clear the
selection.

\b \c{Click Menu} - Bring up the window menu. This can be modified by
holding down various keys while clicking with the mouse. \c{Control} brings
up the font menu, \c{Shift} brings up the colour menu, \c{Alt} brings up the
\c{Modes} menu, and \c{Control-Shift} brings up the mode menu (or the main
window menu if the current mode has no mode menu). \c{Alt-Shift} brings up
the \c{Selection} menu if there is a selection in that window; otherwise you
get the \c{Modes} menu as you would for \c{Alt}.

\b \c{Click Adjust} - If the window doesn't have the input focus, it gets
the input focus and the moved is moved to the last used position (see
\k{basic editing}); if the window contains a selection, the end of the
\i{selection} closest to the clicked position is moved; if the window
contains a cursor then a selection is formed between the cursor and the
clicked position.

Second, drags. If you hold down \c{Control} then the cursor will remain in
place:

\b \c{Drag Select} - Defines a new selection.

\b \c{Drag Adjust} - Resizes the current selection.

Thirdly, multiple clicks of \c{Select} or \c{Adjust}. If you go straight
into a drag from these, the selection will only increase in amounts of
whatever you selected here (for instance, double click then hold and drag
\c{Select} will allow you to define a selection restricted to words):

\b \c{Double click} - Select a word.

\b \c{Treble click} - Select a line.

\b \c{Quadruple click} - Select a paragraph.

\b \c{Quintuple click} - Select the entire file.

In some modes, some of these actions don't make sense - in general,
increased numbers of clicks increase the area selected in a useful way.

If you hold down \c{Shift} with double\-clicking, the definition of 'word'
used will alter slightly. For instance, double clicking in
\c{$.mydir.myfile} might only select \c{myfile}; \c{Shift} double clicking
would select the entire filename.

\H{clicksend} Click Send: \c{Alt} + double click

If you hold down \c{Alt} and double click with either \c{Select} or
\c{Adjust}, the word at the cursor will be 'sent' to one of a variety of
places, depending on what you're doing.

For instance, \c{Alt} double clicking on a URL in a text mode (for instance
Text mode or Email mode) will attempt to open that URL in a web browser,
telnet program, or whatever as appropriate. If you \c{Alt} double click on
more or less anything else, it will be looked up in \i\e{StrongHelp}, if
that is installed on your system.

This system is highly configurable - see \k{clicksend config}.

RULEHERE

The next section in the manual is \k{Advanced editing}, which covers some of
the more sophisticated editing techniques not introduced earlier. In
particular, auto indenting, use of tabs, and how to wrap or format your text
automatically.

Alternatively, you could move on to \k{Display options}, which shows how to
alter the way Zap displays things - the colours it uses, the font it
displays the text in, and so on. It also looks at printing.
