\#
\# $Id: Chapter02,fff,v 1.4 1999-11-03 11:22:38 james Exp $
\#
\# Manual.Section02/src
\# Installing Zap: getting everything in the right place (ZapUser, ZapFonts)
\# Original author: James Aylett
\#
\# This document is both part of the Zap manual, and is the Install document
\# that comes at the root of the main Zap distributions. Consequently it has
\# information about which archives you need.
\#

\C{Installing} Installation: making sure everything's in the right place

Zap is a fairly complex application, and while you \e{can} just copy it onto
your hard disc, it is better if you set it up properly. This will only take
a couple of minutes, and has a number of benefits (although you won't notice
them directly - you just won't get irritated by some of the things that can
go wrong if you \e{don't} set it up properly).

See \k{140-upgrade} if you are upgrading from Zap v1.40 or later.
Unfortunately there is no upgrade path from earlier versions of Zap, because
both the configuration and the layout of files within Zap itself have
altered. We apologise for the inconvenience this causes.

\H{archives} Getting the right files

Zap comes in a number of parts. Which parts you need will depend on what
you're intending to do.

Firstly there is the core distribution, which contains merely those
files \e{required} to get Zap running. While this will give you a usable
text editor, it will be missing many of the more sophisticated features
described in this manual.

Secondly there is a group of extensions which is \e{recommended}; you don't
need these to run Zap, but they provide lots of useful features which you
will probably want.

Thirdly, there are some \e{optional} extensions which many people won't
need, but which some people will find useful.

The core distribution is supplied in one archive, \c{zap.zip}. This is the
first thing you should set up; this process is described below in \k{core
setup}.

The recommended extensions are also supplied in one archive, \c{zmods1.zip}.
Once you've set up Zap itself, you can install these; see \k{recommended
setup} below.

The following additional archives are optional:

\b \c{zfonts.zip} - a full \i{ZapFonts} distribution, containing lots and
lots of fonts. Generally you don't need this for Zap; however ZapFonts is
used by some other applications, so you may want the additional fonts for
use with them. See \k{zapfonts} below for more information.

\b \c{zmods2.zip} - several more extensions. As new extensions appear, they
will usually be added in here rather than making \c{zmods1.zip} any bigger
(unless they are considered to be incredibly useful). See \k{optional setup}
below for more information.

\H{core setup} Core setup

The Zap core distribution contains an Install file (this document in text
format), the \c{!Zap}, \c{!ZapFonts} and \c{!ZapUser} application
directorys, and a couple of other utilities. Please don't just copy it onto
your hard disc - this is extremely limiting.

Let's look at where they should be going. We'll deal with ZapUser first.

\S{zapuser} \i{ZapUser}: user configuration files

ZapUser is designed to keep all your preferences and settings in one place.
This means that you can copy it onto a floppy disc, take it to another
computer, and have exactly the settings that you want there too.

If you have a RISCPC\-style boot structure (as most people do - see below if
you don't), then you want to put ZapUser in \c{Boot:Choices} (shift
double\-click on \c{!Boot} on your main hard disc, and then double\-click on
Choices in the directory viewer that come up; then you can move the
\c{!ZapUser} application by shift\-dragging).

If you \e{don't} have a RISCPC\-style boot structure, then you have a choice.
If you have a boot structure then you can try to find a place to put ZapUser
in that, so that it will get booted \e{before} Zap (wherever you put Zap).
If you can't do that, or don't know what it means, then it's best to put
ZapUser inside Zap, as \c{!Zap.!ZapUser}. While that's far from ideal, it's
a lot easier than setting up a boot structure just to deal with ZapUser.

You can use ZapUser to have multiple configurations on one machine. To
change from one to another, just double\-click on the ZapUser you want to
use, and then quit and restart Zap. A range of sample configurations is
available from wherever you obtained Zap - see \k{future}.

\S{zapfonts} \i{ZapFonts}: the global bitmap font resource

ZapFonts is the global bitmap font resource; it is to bitmap fonts what
!Fonts is to outline fonts. Zap uses bitmap fonts in all its file windows,
and several other applications also use it, including \i\e{Messenger} and
\i\e{FreeTerm}. Consequently we want it to be somewhere that they can all
get at it.

If you have a RISCPC\-style boot structure, then you want to put ZapFonts in
\c{Boot:Resources}. If you don't have a RISCPC\-style boot structure, then
you need to find another place to put ZapFonts so that it will boot before
Zap. If you absolutely can't do this, then you should put ZapFonts inside
the \c{!Zap} directory as \c{!Zap.!ZapFonts}, and make sure that Zap boots
before anything else which might need ZapFonts. The best way to do this is
to have Zap in the root directory of your main hard disc; however we
strongly suggest that you use a boot structure of some sort - there are a
number of free ones available which should suffice.

Because ZapFonts supplies all the bitmap fonts for all the applications that
want to use it, the complete distribution is fairly large. Consequently the
version in the core Zap distribution is minimal, containing only a couple of
fonts. The complete set is available from wherever you got Zap from (see
\k{future}); it will come as a \c{!ZapFonts} application directory which you
can simply copy it over the top of your ZapFonts directory. You may need to
restart some applications to get them to recognise the new fonts (this isn't
true of Zap, which will recognise automatically that you have installed new
fonts).

For more information on using ZapFonts, please see the documentation
supplied inside its application directory.

\S{support files} Support files

Zap comes with two additional support files you'll want to deal with when you're setting it up. It also comes with an Obey file, \c{DontRun}, which is supplied to assist upgrading configuration from v1.40 to v1.45 - see \k{140-upgrade} for more information.

\c{!Country} is a small utility that you should run at startup which determines the country you've set your computer up for. Ideally you should place it in \c{Boot:Choices.Boot.PreDesk} on a recent boot system, so it will be run before anything else, and indeed it is supplied inside a \c{!Boot} structure that you can copy over your current one. \c{!Country} sets the environment variable \c{Sys$Country} to whatever your current country is. Zap uses this in its internationalisation support (see \k{internationalisation}).

\c{DDEU_Patch} patches DDEUtils so that Zap can read the current prefix directory for a taskwindow. You should only run it if you're using version 1.53, 1.54 or 1.55 of DDEUtils. Versions later than 1.55 do not need to be patched since they already include the necessary code.

To check which version you have:

\c *Help DDEUtils

If this reports "No help found", then

\c *Load System:Modules.DDEUtils
\c *Help DDEUtils

Version 1.54 is supplied in the standard !Boot, and version 1.59 is the first version to be included in ROM.

\H{recommended setup} Recommended extensions setup

The \c{zmods1.zip} archive contains a directory \c{Modules} which should be
copied over !Zap.Modules.

Alternatively, you can install just some of the extensions. If you are
fairly confident, you can do this yourself by simply copying the relevant
applications \e{from} the \c{Modules} directory of the archive \e{into}
\c{!Zap.Modules}.

You will then need to quit and restart Zap to complete the setup.

\H{optional setup} Optional extensions setup

Setup for the current optional extensions is the same as for recommended
extensions; see \k{recommended setup}.

\H{140-upgrade} Upgrading from Zap v1.40 or later

To upgrade from Zap v1.40 or later, you need to do three things.

\b Replace !Zap - see \k{140-upgrade-zap}

\b Upgrade !ZapFonts - see \k{140-upgrade-zapfonts}

\b Upgrade !ZapUser - see \k{140-upgrade-zapuser}

\S{140-upgrade-zap} Replacing !Zap

Since all configuration is now held in \c{!ZapUser}, there is almost nothing which most people need to alter inside \c{!Zap} itself these days - including the extensions. This means that you should simply be able to replace your current \c{!Zap} application directory with a new one constructed from \c{zap.zip} and whatever extensions you need, as explained earlier.

Note that this won't work smoothly if you have been keeping \c{!ZapFonts} or \c{!ZapUser} inside the \c{!Zap} application directory. If you are doing so, please consider trying to find an alternative solution, because it will make your life much easier.

\S{140-upgrade-zapfonts} Upgrading !ZapFonts

The only change in \c{!ZapFonts} since Zap v1.40 was released is a new version of \c{ZapRedraw} module. You should copy the new one from inside \c{!ZapFonts} in the \c{zap.zip} archive into your working \c{!ZapFonts} application directory.

\S{140-upgrade-zapuser} Upgrading !ZapUser

To upgrade your configuration from Zap v1.40 to Zap v1.45, the following changes need to be made. The \c{zap.zip} archive contains an Obey file, \c{DontRun} (called that to stop people running it without knowing what it does), which may help in this process: note however that we cannot guarantee that it won't eat your configuration. Please use with care; if you have the time, you are better off upgrading manually.

If you are upgrading from Zap v1.42 or later, some of these changes may be unnecessary for you.

\b \c{!ZapBoot} has changed substantially; it is suggested that you copy the new version over and make any changed you need. In practice, you are unlikely to have changed anything, except perhaps the file type claims (lines such as \c{ZapRunType FFF}).

\b \c{!ZapRun} has changed substantially to support internationalisation; it is suggested that you copy the new version over and make any changes you need. In practice, the only parts you are likely to have changed are the templates set, and perhaps the file type claims. Note that some template sets haven't been updated for v1.45, and so aren't supplied any more. In addition, note that the old system variables \c{Zap$HelpPath_<mode>} are no longer required.

\b \c{Country} has been added to support internationalisation; it can be used to override your system country. You should copy this file over, but only edit it if you need to set your country explicitly.

\b \c{Settings} has had two variables added. &322 can be used to specify a command to execute on startup, and &323 specifies the default mode. See \k{settings} for more information.

\b A directory \c{TMFs} has been added. You should copy this across. TMFs are files that set per-mode variables, used to make some commands and operations more configurable. See \k{c-vars} for more information. If you are upgrading from v1.42 or later, you will already have this directory present; however it may contain TMFs which are now unnecessary. Unless you have edited any of these yourself, you should only have TMFs for core modes (Text, Byte, HalfWord, Word, DoubleWord, ASCII and Code) in this directory.

\b The \c{Keys} file has changed significantly; firstly, the method of specifying alternate keymaps has changed from using &400 variables in a block, to using &800 variables immediately before the keymap in question, to declare them. Secondly, support for country-specific \c{Keys} files has been added; instead of a single file, you should have a directory, \c{ZapUser:Config.Keys}, containing a file for each country (eg: \c{ZapUser:Config.Keys.UK}, \c{ZapUser:Config.Keys.France}). Unless you made significant alterations to your keys file, we suggest that you copy in the new keys directory and make any changes you need. Alternatively, move your current \c{ZapUser:Config.Keys} to \c{ZapUser:Config.Keys.UK} (or another country name, as appropriate), and edit it to use the new file format. See \k{internationalisation} for more information about internationalisation, and \k{keyboard config} for more information about the new \c{Keys} file format.

\b The \c{Menus} file has also become internationalised, in the same way. In addition, we now generate menus files from a source format which allows you to name menus instead of referring to them by number. Further, areas of the source file can be made optional - the idea is that more or less everyone can use the same source file, while still being able to configure things a fair amount. We strongly suggest that, if you don't like the new default menus, you copy the new menus directory, look at, and possibly edit, the appropriate source file (they are supplied in the directory \c{ZapUser:Config.Menus.Source}), and generate your menus file from that. See \k{internationalisation} for more information about internationalisation, and \k{menus} for more information about the new \c{Menus} source format, and the method for generating the final file from source.

RULEHERE

Now you have a working version of Zap. If you currently have an older
version of Zap running, you should quit it; now you should double\-click on
both ZapUser and ZapFonts to make sure that they are setup correctly in
their new locations. Finally you can double\-click on Zap to load it.

The next section in the manual is \k{Basic operation}, which introduces you
to the basic editing facilities of Zap. Even if you have used Zap before we
advise that you at least skim through this section, to make sure you haven't
missed any of the useful functions available.
