<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1" ?>

<html>
 <head>
  <title>ZapFontMenu class specification</title>
  <?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" href="style" ?>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style" />
 </head>

 <body>
  <h1>ZapFontMenu class</h1>
 
  <h2>Overview</h2>

  <p>
    A Zap Font Menu object is a menu which allows a user to select one of the
    installed ZapRedraw bitmap fonts or Encodings. The currently selected font
    may have a tick beside it, and optionally the System Font may be present
    at the head of the menu. 
  </p>

  <h2>User interface</h2>

  <p>When a Menu Selection event is received for an item on the font menu, a
     Toolbox event is returned to the client containing the ID of the
     selected item and a flag to show whether a Font or an Encoding has been
     selected. The selected font is ticked when the menu is next shown
     (immediately if the menu was selected with Adjust).
  </p>

  <p>Zap Font Menu objects are suitable for use as the Show Object for Popup
     Menu gadgets.
  </p>

  <h2>Application Program Interface</h2>

  <p>The ZapFontMenu object is an abstraction of the interface to list fonts
     provided by ZapRedraw.</p>

  <h3>Attributes</h3>

  <p>A Zap Font Menu has the following attributes which are specified in its
     object template and can be manipulated by the Client at run time:</p>

  <table class="list">
   <tr><th>Attribute</th><th>Description</th></tr>
   <tr><td>flags word</td><td>
    <table class="bitlist">
     <tr><th>Bit</th><th>Meaning when set</th></tr>
     <tr><td>0</td><td>A ZapFontMenu_AboutToBeShown event should be raised
                       when SWI Toolbox_ShowObject is called for this object</td></tr>
     <tr><td>1</td><td>A ZapFontMenu_HasBeenHidden event should be raised
                       when the menu is removed from the screen</td></tr>
     <tr><td>2</td><td>The System Font should be present at the head of the
                       menu</td></tr>
     <tr><td>3</td><td>Generate an Encodings menu rather than a bitmap font
                       menu</td></tr>
   </table></td></tr>
   <tr><td>ticked_font</td><td>The Font identifier of the dont to be ticked on
           the menu. Where the System Font should be ticked, the special identifier
           'SystemFont' is used.</td></tr>
  </table>


  <h2>Manipulating a Zap Font Menu object</h2>

  <h4>Creating and deleting a Zap Font Menu object</h4>

  <p>A Zap Font Menu is created using SWI Toolbox_CreateObject. It has no
     attached objects.</p>

  <p>A Zap Font Menu is deleted using SWI Toolbox_DeleteObject. The the
non-recursive-delete bit has no meaning for Zap Font Menu objects.</p>

  <h4>Showing a Zap Font Menu object</h4>

  <p>When a Zap Font Menu object is displayed on screen using SWI
     Toolbox_ShowObject, it has the following behaviour:</p>

  <table class="list">
   <tr><th>Show type</th><th>Position</th></tr>
   <tr><td>0 (default)</td>
       <td>64 OS usits to the left of the mouse pointer</td></tr>
   <tr><td>1 (full spec)</td>
       <td>R3 + 0 gives the x coordinate of the top left of the menu<br />
           R3 + 4 gives the y coordinate of the top left of the menu
       </td>
   </tr>
   <tr><td>2 (top left)</td>
       <td>R3 + 0 gives the x coordinate of the top left of the menu<br />
           R3 + 4 gives the y coordinate of the top left of the menu
       </td>
   </tr>
  </table>

  <h4>Before a Zap Font Menu object is shown</h4>

  <p>When SWI Toolbox_ShowObject is called, a ZapFontMenu_AboutToBeShown event
     is raised if the appropriate flags bit is set, allowing the client to set
     which font should be shown as the currently selected one.</p>

  <h4>Selecting a Font</h4>

  <p>A tick is shown beside the currently selected font (or encoding) in the
     font menu. The font which should be ticked can be set using method
     ZapFontMenu_SetFont, and read using method ZapFontMenu_GetFont. The string
     used in both cases is a complete font identifier, not a translated font name
     (see the ZapRedraw documentation).</p>

  <h4>Receiving a font selection</h4>

  <p>When an item in the font menu is selected by the user, a
     ZapFontMenu_FontSelection event is raised, giving the font ID of the
     selection and a flag to say whether a font or an encoding has been
     selected. In both cases the special id 'SystemFont' is used to mean
     the System Font entry was selected.</p>

  <h2>ZapFontMenu methods</h2>

  <p>The following methods are all invoken by zalling SWI Toolbox_MiscOp
     with</p>

  <table>
   <tr><td>R0</td><td>holding a flags word</td></tr>
   <tr><td>R1</td><td>holding a ZapFontMenu object id</td></tr>
   <tr><td>R2</td><td>holding the method code</td></tr>
   <tr><td>R3-R9</td><td>holding method specific data</td></tr>
  </table>

  <dl>
   <dt>ZapFontMenu_SetFont 0</dt>
   <dd><p>On entry: 
    <table>
     <tr><td valign="top">R0</td><td valign="top">flags</td></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">R1</td><td valign="top">Zap Font Menu object id</td></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">R2</td><td valign="top">0</td></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">R3</td><td valign="top">pointer to the font id to
select (0 means no font)</td></tr>
    </table></p>
    <p>On exit:  
    <table>
     <tr><td valign="top">R1-R9</td><td valign="top">preserved.</td></tr>
    </table></p>
    <p>Use:</p>
    <p>This method selects a font as the currently selected for this menu and
places a tick next to its menu entry. If the System Font should be selected,
use the font id 'SystemFont'.</p>
   </dd>

   <dt>ZapFontMenu_GetFont 1</dt>
   <dd><p>On entry: 
    <table>
     <tr><td valign="top">R0</td><td valign="top">flags</td></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">R1</td><td valign="top">Zap Font Menu object id</td></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">R2</td><td valign="top">1</td></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">R3</td><td valign="top">pointer to buffer to hold
font id, or 0 to find required size</td></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">R4</td><td valign="top">size of buffer in R3</td></tr>
    </table></p>
    <p>On exit:  
    <table>
     <tr><td valign="top">R4</td><td valign="top">number of bytes written to
buffer</td></tr>
    </table></p>
    <p>Use:</p>
    <p>This method returns the font id of the font which was last specified
using ZapFontMenu_SetFont, or was last selected by the user. Is the System
Font is ticked, this method returns the font id 'SystemFont'.</p>
   </dd>

   <dt>ZapFontMenu_SetSystemAvailable 2</dt>
   <dd><p>On entry: 
    <table>
     <tr><td valign="top">R0</td><td valign="top">flags</td></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">R1</td><td valign="top">Zap Font Menu object id</td></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">R2</td><td valign="top">2</td></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">R3</td><td valign="top">non-zero makes the
System Font available, otherwise it is not available.</td></tr>
    </table></p>
    <p>On exit:  
    <table>
     <tr><td valign="top">R1-R9</td><td valign="top">preserved.</td></tr>
    </table></p>
    <p>Use:</p>
    <p>This method specifies whether the System Font should appear at the
head of the menu.</p>
   </dd>

   <dt>ZapFontMenu_GetSystemAvailable 3</dt>
   <dd><p>On entry: 
    <table>
     <tr><td valign="top">R0</td><td valign="top">flags</td></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">R1</td><td valign="top">Zap Font Menu object id</td></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">R2</td><td valign="top">3</td></tr>
    </table></p>
    <p>On exit:  
    <table>
     <tr><td valign="top">R0</td><td valign="top">non-zero if the System Font
is availabe, otherwise zero.</td></tr>
    </table></p>
    <p>Use:</p>
    <p>This method returns whether the System Font will appear at the head of the menu.</p>
   </dd>
  </dl>

  <h2>ZapFontMenu events</h2>

<p>There are a number of Toolbox events which are generated by the
ZapFontMenu object.</p>

  <h3>ZapFontMenu_AboutToBeShown (0xnnnn00)</h3>

   <p>
    <table>
     <tr><th valign="top">Block</th></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">+8</td><td valign="top">0xnnnn00</td></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">+12</td><td valign="top">flags as passed to
Toolbox_ShowObject</td></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">+16</td><td valign="top">value passed in R2 to Toolbox_ShowObject</td></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">+20...</td><td valign="top">block containing the
fully specified coordinates of where the menu will be shown</td></tr>
    </table>
   </p>

   <p>
    <table>
     <tr><th valign="top">Use</th></tr>
     <tr><td><p>This Toolbox event is raised when Toolbox_ShowObject is
called for a Zap Font Menu object which has the appropriate flags bit set. It
allows the client to set the font which should be ticked and whether the
System Font is available, before the menu appears on screen</p></td></tr>
    </table>
   </p>


  <h3>ZapFontMenu_HasBeenHidden (0xnnnn01)</h3>

   <p>
    <table>
     <tr><th valign="top">Block</th></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">+8</td><td valign="top">0xnnnn01</td></tr>
    </table>
   </p>

   <p>
    <table>
     <tr><th valign="top">Use</th></tr>
     <tr><td><p>This Toolbox event is raised when Toolbox_HideObject is
called for a Zap Font Menu object which has the appropriate flags bit set in
its object template. It allows the client to clean up after a menu has been
closed. It is also generated when the user clicks outside the menu or presses
Escape.</p></td></tr>
    </table>
   </p>


  <h3>ZapFontMenu_FontSelection (0xnnnn02)</h3>

   <p>
    <table>
     <tr><th valign="top">Block</th></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">+8</td><td valign="top">0xnnnn01</td></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">+12</td><td valign="top">Flags:
                      <table><tr><td>bit 0</td><td>Set if the generating menu was an
                      Encodings menu, clear for a Font menu.</td></tr></table>
                      </td></tr>
     <tr><td valign="top">+16...</td><td valign="top">Font identifier</td></tr>
    </table>
   </p>

   <p>
    <table>
     <tr><th valign="top">Use</th></tr>
     <tr><td><p>This Toolbox event informs the client that the user has
selected a font. If the System Font was selected, the special font identifier
'SystemFont' is returned (for both Font and Encoding menus).</p></td></tr>
    </table>
   </p>


  <h2>ZapFontMenu template</h2>

<p>The layout of a Zap Font Menu is shown below. Fields which have type
MessageRefernce or StringReference are those which require relocation when
loaded from a resource file. If the template is being constructed in memory,
these fields should be real pointers and not require relocation.</p>

<table>
<tr><th>Field</th><th>Size in bytes</th><th>Type</th></tr>
<tr><td>flags</td><td>4</td><td>word</td></tr>
<tr><td>ticked_font</td><td>4</td><td>StringReference</td></tr>
</table>


  <h2>ZapFontMenu Wimp event handling</h2>

<p>ZapFontMenu objects respond to certain wimp events and take the actions
described below:</p>

<table>
<tr><th>Wimp event</th><th>Action</th></tr>
<tr><td valign="top">Menu selection</td><td>
   <p>The Font id corresponding to the selected menu item is returned to the
client in a ZapFontMenu_FontSelection event. If the menu selection was made
using Adjust, the menu is reopened in the same place.</p></td></tr>

<tr><td valign="top">User Message</td><td>
   <p>A reply is sent on the application's behalf to a Message_HelpRequest
received while pointer is over a Zap Font Menu object.</p></td></tr>

</table>

 </body>
</html>

   
   


